Niamh25/doc 5383/corda 5 advanced utxo ledger extensions (#1385)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.0/developing-applications/getting-started/utxo-advanced-ledger-extensions.md

Reviewer: is this intentionally removed in the recent commits ?
@Niamh25 - what's the plan with regards to the code snippets and my suggested fixes ?

Author: Apologies @yarivus I did not see thees changes I thought the content was already approved! I just committed them there, thank you and again sorry for the delay!

    identifier: corda5-utxo-ledger-extensions
    weight: 8000
section_menu: corda5
---

# UTXO Advanced Ledger Extensions Library

The Corda 5 Advanced UTXO Ledger Extensions library provides several powerful features to Corda 5's UTXO ledger.
These features have been selected and designed to solve common problems that CorDapp developers face when building states and contracts on Corda.

## Feature Overview

The following definitions provide an overview of each major feature or component that has been implemented in the Corda 5 Advanced UTXO Ledger Extensions library. These features can be used together; for example, a state could be designed to be fungible, issuable and ownable.

| State             | Description                                                                            |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Chainable         | Represents strictly linear state chains, where every state in the chain points to the previous state in the chain. This could be thought of as a similar concept to a blockchain, where each new block points to the previous block.     |

> | Fungible          |Represents states that have a scalar numeric quantity, and can be split, merged, and mutually exchanged with other fungible states of the same class. Fungible states represent the building blocks for states like tokens.             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Fungible          | Represents states that have a scalar numeric quantity, and can be split, merged, and mutually exchanged with other fungible states of the same class. Fungible states represent the building blocks for states like tokens.             |
```

| Identifiable      | Represents states that have a unique identifier that is guaranteed unique at the network level. Identifiable states are designed to evolve over time, where unique identifiers can be used to resolve the history of the identifiable state.                                                      |
| Issuable          | Represents states that have an issuer. Typically an issuer is responsible for signing transactions where issuable states are issued or redeemed.                                                                    |

> | Ownable           |  Represents states that have an owner. Typically an owner is responsible for signing transactions where ownable states are transferred from one owner to another.                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ownable           | Represents states that have an owner. Typically an owner is responsible for signing transactions where ownable states are transferred from one owner to another.                                  |
```

## Basic Contract Design

The following contract defines three commands; Create, Update and Delete. The `verify` function delegates these command types to `verifyCreate`, `verifyUpdate` and `verifyDelete` functions respectively, for example:

```kotlin
    public final class ExampleContract implements Contract {
    private interface ExampleContractCommand extends Command { }
  
    public static class Create implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    public static class Update implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    public static class Delete implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    @Override
    public void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        
        List<? extends ExampleContractCommand> commands = transaction
                .getCommands(ExampleContractCommand.class);
        
        for (ExampleContractCommand command : commands) {
            if (command instanceof Create) verifyCreate(transaction);
            else if (command instanceof Update) verifyUpdate(transaction);
            else if (command instanceof Delete) verifyDelete(transaction);
            else throw new IllegalStateException("Unrecognised command type.");
        }
    }

>     private void verifyCreate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    private void verifyCreate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
```

        // Verify Create constraints
    }

>     private void verifyUpdate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    private void verifyUpdate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
```

        // Verify Update constraints
    }

>     private void verifyDelete(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    private void verifyDelete(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
```

  
    public static class Create implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    public static class Update implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    public static class Delete implements ExampleContractCommand { }
    
    @Override
    public void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        
        List<? extends ExampleContractCommand> commands = transaction
                .getCommands(ExampleContractCommand.class);
        
        for (ExampleContractCommand command : commands) {
            if (command instanceof Create) verifyCreate(transaction);
            else if (command instanceof Update) verifyUpdate(transaction);
            else if (command instanceof Delete) verifyDelete(transaction);
            else throw new IllegalStateException("Unrecognised command type.");
        }
    }
    
    private void verifyCreate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify Create constraints
    }
    
    private void verifyUpdate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify Update constraints
    }
    
    private void verifyDelete(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify Delete constraints
    }
}
  ```

> Designing a contract like this will suffice in many cases. Assuming that the constraints have been implemented correctly then the contract functionality and design is perfectly acceptable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Designing a contract as shown in the above example will suffice in many cases. Assuming that the constraints have been implemented correctly then, the contract functionality and design is perfectly acceptable.
```

{{< note >}}

> There are cases where this design approach no longer fits the design goals of the system being implemented; specifically, in regard to contract extensibility, it's currently not possible to extend this contract to support additional constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are cases where this design approach no longer fits the design goals of the system being implemented. Specifically, in regard to contract extensibility, it is currently not possible to extend a contract to support additional constraints.
```

            else if (command instanceof Delete) verifyDelete(transaction);
            else throw new IllegalStateException("Unrecognised command type.");
        }
    }
    
    protected void onVerifyCreate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }
    protected void onVerifyUpdate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }
    protected void onVerifyDelete(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }    
    private void verifyCreate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
    
        // Verify base Create constraints
        // Then verify additional Create constraints implemented by derived contracts
        onVerifyCreate(transaction);
        
    }
    private void verifyUpdate(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify base Update constraints
        // Then verify additional Update constraints implemented by derived contracts
        onVerifyUpdate(transaction);
    }
    
    private void verifyDelete(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify base Delete constraints
        // Then verify additional Delete constraints implemented by derived contracts
        onVerifyDelete(transaction);
    }
}
```

> Refactoring a contract like this allows CorDapp implementors to derive from the contract, allowing additional constraints which will be verified in additional to the constraints specified by the base contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refactoring a contract as shown in the above example allows CorDapp implementors to derive from the contract, allowing additional constraints which will be verified in additional to the constraints specified by the base contract.
```

{{< note >}}
There are still some outstanding issues with this design, where this design approach no longer fits the design goals of the system being implemented.
{{</ note >}}

The problem really lies in the `verify` function; for example:

```kotlin

  public final void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
  
    List<? extends ExampleContractCommand> commands = transaction
            .getCommands(ExampleContractCommand.class);
            
    for (ExampleContractCommand command : commands) {
        if (command instanceof Create) verifyCreate(transaction);
        else if (command instanceof Update) verifyUpdate(transaction);
        else if (command instanceof Delete) verifyDelete(transaction);
        else throw new IllegalStateException("Unrecognised command type.");
    }
}
```

> The `verify` function is marked final for security reasons, and therefore additional commands cannot be added to the contract, for example, the contract may wish to describe multiple ways to `Update` a state, or set of states. The contract only defines a single `Update` command, there can only be one mechanism to perform updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `verify` function is marked final for security reasons, and therefore additional commands cannot be added to the contract. For example, the contract may wish to describe multiple ways to `Update` a state, or set of states. The contract only defines a single `Update` command: there can only be one mechanism to perform updates.
```

> The second problem lies in the commands themselves and their names. `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` are very ambiguous names, which won't make sense depending on the context of the contract being implemented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second problem lies in the commands themselves and their names. `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` are very ambiguous names, which may not make sense depending on the context of the contract being implemented.
```

## Delegated Command Design

In the contracts above, the commands are nothing more than marker classes; effectively they are cases in a switch statement, which allows the contract's `verify` function to delegate responsibility of specific contract constraints to other functions, such as `verifyCreate`, `verifyUpdate` and `verifyDelete`.

> We can implement the verify function on the command itself. Instead of being an empty marker class, this gives the command responsibility, as it becomes responsible for implementing its associated contract verification constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can implement the `verify` function on the command itself. Instead of being an empty marker class, this gives the command responsibility, as it becomes responsible for implementing its associated contract verification constraints.
```

> In this case, we define a `VerifiableCommand` interface with a `verify` function, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, we define a `VerifiableCommand` interface with a `verify` function; for example:
```

```kotlin

    public interface VerifiableCommand extends Command {
    void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction);
}
```

Now that we have a command which itself can implement contract verification constraints, we can use this as the basis for the `ExampleContractCommand` class. This needs to be a class rather than an interface, because we need to be in complete control of its implementations for security.

> We achieve this by making the default constructor package-private, so that only commands within the same package can extend it; for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We achieve this by making the default constructor package private, so that only commands within the same package can extend it; for example:
```

```kotlin

  public class ExampleContractCommand implements VerifiableCommand {
  ExampleContractCommand() { }
}
```

> Next, we can implement this interface as `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` commands, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, we can implement this interface as `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` commands; for example:
```

```kotlin

    public class Create extends ExampleContractCommand {
    
    @Override
    
    public final void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
    
        // Verify base Create constraints
        // Then verify additional Create constraints implemented in derived commands
        onVerify(transaction);
        
    }
    protected void onVerify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }
}
public class Update extends ExampleContractCommand {

    @Override
    
    public final void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
    
        // Verify base Update constraints
        // Then verify additional Update constraints implemented in derived commands
        onVerify(transaction);
        
    }
    protected void onVerify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }
}
public class Delete extends ExampleContractCommand {

    @Override
    
    public final void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
        // Verify base Delete constraints
        // Then verify additional Delete constraints implemented in derived commands
        onVerify(transaction);
    }
    protected void onVerify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) { }
}
```

{{< note >}}

> The `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` commands are not marked final, therefore we can extend the contract verification constraints from these points, but we can't extend from `ExampleContractCommand`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Create`, `Update` and `Delete` commands are not marked final. Therefore, we can extend the contract verification constraints from these points, but we cannot extend from `ExampleContractCommand`.
```

{{< /note >}}

## Delegated Contract Design

> As we have now delegated contract verification constraint logic to the commands themselves, we must also refactor the contract to support this delegation. The contract implementation in this case becomes incredibly simple, since it's no longer responsible for defining contract verification constraints, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we have now delegated contract verification constraint logic to the commands themselves, we must also refactor the contract to support this delegation. The contract implementation in this case becomes simpler, since it is no longer responsible for defining contract verification constraints. For example:
```

```kotlin

    public final class ExampleContract implements Contract {
    
      @Override
      
      public void verify(UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
         List<? extends ExampleContractCommand> commands = transaction
                  .getCommands(ExampleContractCommand.class);
                  
          for (ExampleContractCommand command : commands) {
              command.verify(transaction);
          }
      }
    }
```

> This design addresses the outstanding issues in regard to being able to extend a contract with multiple commands, and being able to give command's names that make sense in the context that they're used; for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This design addresses the outstanding issues in regard to being able to extend a contract with multiple commands, and being able to assign names to commands that make sense in the context that they're used. For example:
```

```kotlin

    class Mint extends Create { ... }
    class Issue extends Update { ... }
    class Transfer extends Update { ... }
    class Exchange extends Update { ... }
    class Redeem extends Update { ... }
    class Burn extends Delete { ... }
```

{{< note >}}
 The contract now supports five different command types, each of which implements different constraints and derives from `Create`, `Update`, or `Delete`.
{{< /note >}}

## Advanced Contract Design

> All the contract design issues that have been highlighted above are implemented by the Corda 5 Advanced UTXO Extensions library, and into all the specific implementations, for example, chainable, fungible and identifiable contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the contract design issues that have been highlighted above are implemented by the Corda 5 Advanced UTXO Extensions library, and are included in all the specific implementations; for example, chainable, fungible and identifiable contracts.
```

## Base API

Module: base

Package: com.r3.corda.ledger.utxo.base

> The base API provides the underlying component model for designing extensible contracts with delegated contract verification constraint logic, as well as some other components which allow CorDapp developers to be more expressive and better express intent throughout their applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The base API provides the underlying component model for designing extensible contracts with delegated contract verification constraint logic, as well as other components which allow CorDapp developers to better express intent throughout their applications.
```

## Chainable API

Module: chainable

Package: com.r3.corda.ledger.utxo.chainable

The chainable API provides the component model for designing chainable states and contracts. Chainable states represent strictly linear state chains, where every state in the chain points to the previous state in the chain. This could be thought of as a similar concept to a blockchain, where each new block points to the previous block.

## Designing a Chainable State

> A chainable state can be implemented by implementing the `ChainableState<T>` interface, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A chainable state can be implemented by implementing the `ChainableState<T>` interface; for example:
```

    return ExampleChainableState.class;
  }
  
  @Override
  
   protected void onVerify(@NotNull final UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
    // Verify additional Create constraints
  }
}
```

The `ChainableContractUpdateCommand` supports updating existing chainable states and will verify the following constraints:

* On chainable state(s) updating, at least one chainable state must be consumed.
* On chainable state(s) updating, at least one chainable state must be created.
* On chainable state(s) updating, the previous state pointer of every created chainable state must not be null.
* On chainable state(s) updating, the previous state pointer of every created chainable state must be pointing to exactly one consumed chainable state, exclusively.

```kotlin

   public final class Update extends ChainableContractUpdateCommand<ExampleChainableState> {
  
   @NotNull
   
    public Class<ExampleChainableState> getContractStateType() {
     return ExampleChainableState.class;
  }
  
   @Override
  
    protected void onVerify(@NotNull final UtxoLedgerTransaction transaction) {
    
    // Verify additional Update constraints
  }
}
```

> The `ChainableContractDeleteCommand` supports deleting existing chainable states and will verify the constraint chainable state(s) deleting, at least one chainable state must be consumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ChainableContractDeleteCommand` supports deleting existing chainable states and will verify the following constraint:

* On chainable state(s) deleting, at least one chainable state must be consumed.
```
